= Releasing Rails

In this document, we'll cover the steps necessary to release Rails.  Each
section contains steps to take during that time before the release.  The times
suggested in each header are just that: suggestions.  However, they should
really be considered as minimums.

== 10 Days before release

Today is mostly coordination tasks.  Here are the things you must do today:

=== Is the CI green?  If not, make it green. (See "Fixing the CI")

Do not release with a Red CI.  You can find the CI status here:

  http://travis-ci.org/#!/rails/rails

=== Is Sam Ruby happy?  If not, make him happy.

Sam Ruby keeps a test suite that makes sure the code samples in his book (Agile
Web Development with Rails) all work.  These are valuable integration tests
for Rails.  You can check the status of his tests here:

  http://intertwingly.net/projects/dashboard.html

Do not release with Red AWDwR tests.

=== Do we have any Git dependencies?  If so, contact those authors.

Having Git dependencies indicates that we depend on unreleased code.
Obviously Rails cannot be released when it depends on unreleased code.
Contact the authors of those particular gems and work out a release date that
suits them.

=== Contact the security team (either Koz or tenderlove)

Let them know of your plans to release.  There may be security issues to be
addressed, and that can impact your release date.

=== Notify implementors.

Ruby implementors have high stakes in making sure Rails works.  Be kind and
give them a heads up that Rails will be released soonish.

This only needs done for major and minor releases, bugfix releases aren't a
big enough deal, and are supposed to be backwards compatible.

Send an email just giving a heads up about the upcoming release to these
lists:

* team@jruby.org
* community@rubini.us
* rubyonrails-core@googlegroups.com

Implementors will love you and help you.

== 3 Days before release

This is when you should release the release candidate.  Here are your tasks
for today:

=== Is the CI green?  If not, make it green.

=== Is Sam Ruby happy?  If not, make him happy.

=== Contact the security team.  CVE emails must be sent on this day.

=== Create a release branch.

From the stable branch, create a release branch.  For example, if you're
releasing Rails 3.0.10, do this:

    [aaron@higgins rails (3-0-stable)]$ git checkout -b 3-0-10
    Switched to a new branch '3-0-10'
    [aaron@higgins rails (3-0-10)]$

=== Update each CHANGELOG.

Many times commits are made without the CHANGELOG being updated.  You should
review the commits since the last release, and fill in any missing information
for each CHANGELOG.

You can review the commits for the 3.0.10 release like this:

    [aaron@higgins rails (3-0-10)]$ git log v3.0.9..

If you're doing a stable branch release, you should also ensure that all of
the CHANGELOG entries in the stable branch are also synced to the master
branch.

=== Update the RAILS_VERSION file to include the RC.

=== Build and test the gem.

Run `rake install` to generate the gems and install them locally. Then try
generating a new app and ensure that nothing explodes.

This will stop you from looking silly when you push an RC to rubygems.org and
then realise it is broken.

=== Release the gem.

IMPORTANT: Due to YAML parse problems on the rubygems.org server, it is safest
to use Ruby 1.8 when releasing.

Run `rake release`.  This will populate the gemspecs with data from
RAILS_VERSION, commit the changes, tag it, and push the gems to rubygems.org.
Here are the commands that `rake release` should use, so you can understand
what to do in case anything goes wrong:

    $ rake all:build
    $ git commit -am'updating RAILS_VERSION'
    $ git tag -m'tagging rc release' v3.0.10.rc1
    $ git push
    $ git push --tags
    $ for i in $(ls dist); do gem push $i; done

=== Send Rails release announcements

Write a release announcement that includes the version, changes, and links to
GitHub where people can find the specific commit list.  Here are the mailing
lists where you should announce:

* rubyonrails-core@googlegroups.com
* rubyonrails-talk@googlegroups.com
* ruby-talk@ruby-lang.org

Use Markdown format for your announcement.  Remember to ask people to report
issues with the release candidate to the rails-core mailing list.

IMPORTANT: If any users experience regressions when using the release
candidate, you *must* postpone the release.  Bugfix releases *should not*
break existing applications.

=== Post the announcement to the Rails blog.

If you used Markdown format for your email, you can just paste it in to the
blog.

* http://weblog.rubyonrails.org

=== Post the announcement to the Rails Twitter account.

== Time between release candidate and actual release

Check the rails-core mailing list and the GitHub issue list for regressions in
the RC.

If any regressions are found, fix the regressions and repeat the release
candidate process.  We will not release the final until 72 hours after the
last release candidate has been pushed.  This means that if users find
regressions, the scheduled release date must be postponed.

When you fix the regressions, do not create a new branch.  Fix them on the
stable branch, then cherry pick the commit to your release branch.  No other
commits should be added to the release branch besides regression fixing commits.

== Day of release

Many of these steps are the same as for the release candidate, so if you need
more explanation on a particular step, so the RC steps.

Today, do this stuff in this order:

* Apply security patches to the release branch
* Update CHANGELOG with security fixes.
* Update RAILS_VERSION to remove the rc
* Build and test the gem
* Release the gems
* If releasing a new stable version:
  - Trigger stable docs generation (see below)
  - Update the version in the home page
* Email security lists
* Email general announcement lists

=== Emailing the Rails security announce list

Email the security announce list once for each vulnerability fixed.

You can do this, or ask the security team to do it.

Email the security reports to:

* rubyonrails-security@googlegroups.com
* oss-security@lists.openwall.com

Be sure to note the security fixes in your announcement along with CVE numbers
and links to each patch.  Some people may not be able to upgrade right away,
so we need to give them the security fixes in patch form.

* Blog announcements
* Twitter announcements
* Merge the release branch to the stable branch.
* Drink beer (or other cocktail)

== Misc

=== Fixing the CI

There are two simple steps for fixing the CI:

1. Identify the problem
2. Fix it

Repeat these steps until the CI is green.

=== Manually trigger docs generation

We have a post-receive hook in GitHub that calls the docs server on pushes.
It triggers generation and publication of edge docs, updates the contrib app,
and generates and publishes stable docs if a new stable tag is detected.

The hook unfortunately is not invoked by tag pushing, so once the new stable
tag has been pushed to origin, please run

    rake publish_docs

You should see something like this:

    Rails master hook tasks scheduled:

      * updates the local checkout
      * updates Rails Contributors
      * generates and publishes edge docs

    If a new stable tag is detected it also

      * generates and publishes stable docs

    This needs typically a few minutes.

Note you do not need to specify the tag, the docs server figures it out.

Also, don't worry if you call that multiple times or the hook is triggered
again by some immediate regular push, if the scripts are running new calls
are just queued (in a queue of size 1).
