guides/source/active_record_basics.md, before:

**DO NOT READ THIS FILE ON GITHUB, GUIDES ARE PUBLISHED ON https://guides.rubyonrails.org.**

Active Record Basics
====================

This guide is an introduction to Active Record.

After reading this guide, you will know:

* What Object Relational Mapping and Active Record are and how they are used in
  Rails.
* How Active Record fits into the Model-View-Controller paradigm.
* How to use Active Record models to manipulate data stored in a relational
  database.
* Active Record schema naming conventions.
* The concepts of database migrations, validations, callbacks, and associations.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is Active Record?
----------------------

Active Record is the M in [MVC][] - the model - which is the layer of the system
responsible for representing business data and logic. Active Record facilitates
the creation and use of business objects whose data requires persistent storage
to a database. It is an implementation of the Active Record pattern which itself
is a description of an Object Relational Mapping system.

### The Active Record Pattern

[Active Record was described by Martin Fowler][MFAR] in his book _Patterns of
Enterprise Application Architecture_. In Active Record, objects carry both
persistent data and behavior which operates on that data. Active Record takes
the opinion that ensuring data access logic as part of the object will educate
users of that object on how to write to and read from the database.

### Object Relational Mapping

[Object Relational Mapping][ORM], commonly referred to as its abbreviation ORM,
is a technique that connects the rich objects of an application to tables in a
relational database management system. Using ORM, the properties and
relationships of the objects in an application can be easily stored and
retrieved from a database without writing SQL statements directly and with less
overall database access code.

NOTE: Basic knowledge of relational database management systems (RDBMS) and
structured query language (SQL) is helpful in order to fully understand Active
Record. Please refer to [this tutorial][sqlcourse] (or [this one][rdbmsinfo]) or
study them by other means if you would like to learn more.

### Active Record as an ORM Framework

Active Record gives us several mechanisms, the most important being the ability
to:

* Represent models and their data.
* Represent associations between these models.
* Represent inheritance hierarchies through related models.
* Validate models before they get persisted to the database.
* Perform database operations in an object-oriented fashion.

[MVC]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller
[MFAR]: https://www.martinfowler.com/eaaCatalog/activeRecord.html
[ORM]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-relational_mapping
[sqlcourse]: https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming/sql
[rdbmsinfo]: https://www.devart.com/what-is-rdbms/

Convention over Configuration in Active Record
----------------------------------------------

When writing applications using other programming languages or frameworks, it
may be necessary to write a lot of configuration code. This is particularly true
for ORM frameworks in general. However, if you follow the conventions adopted by
Rails, you'll need to write very little configuration (in some cases no
configuration at all) when creating Active Record models. The idea is that if
you configure your applications in the very same way most of the time then this
should be the default way. Thus, explicit configuration would be needed
only in those cases where you can't follow the standard convention.

### Naming Conventions

By default, Active Record uses some naming conventions to find out how the
mapping between models and database tables should be created. Rails will
pluralize your class names to find the respective database table. So, for
a class `Book`, you should have a database table called **books**. The Rails
pluralization mechanisms are very powerful, being capable of pluralizing (and
singularizing) both regular and irregular words. When using class names composed
of two or more words, the model class name should follow the Ruby conventions,
using the CamelCase form, while the table name must use the snake_case form. Examples:

* Model Class - Singular with the first letter of each word capitalized (e.g., `BookClub`).
* Database Table - Plural with underscores separating words (e.g., `book_clubs`).

| Model / Class    | Table / Schema |
| ---------------- | -------------- |
| `Article`        | `articles`     |
| `LineItem`       | `line_items`   |
| `Deer`           | `deers`        |
| `Mouse`          | `mice`         |
| `Person`         | `people`       |

### Schema Conventions

Active Record uses naming conventions for the columns in database tables,
depending on the purpose of these columns.

* **Foreign keys** - These fields should be named following the pattern
  `singularized_table_name_id` (e.g., `item_id`, `order_id`). These are the
  fields that Active Record will look for when you create associations between
  your models.
* **Primary keys** - By default, Active Record will use an integer column named
  `id` as the table's primary key (`bigint` for PostgreSQL and MySQL, `integer`
  for SQLite). When using [Active Record Migrations](active_record_migrations.html)
  to create your tables, this column will be automatically created.

There are also some optional column names that will add additional features
to Active Record instances:

* `created_at` - Automatically gets set to the current date and time when the
  record is first created.
* `updated_at` - Automatically gets set to the current date and time whenever
  the record is created or updated.
* `lock_version` - Adds [optimistic
  locking](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Locking.html) to
  a model.
* `type` - Specifies that the model uses [Single Table
  Inheritance](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Base.html#class-ActiveRecord::Base-label-Single+table+inheritance).
* `(association_name)_type` - Stores the type for
  [polymorphic associations](association_basics.html#polymorphic-associations).
* `(table_name)_count` - Used to cache the number of belonging objects on
  associations. For example, a `comments_count` column in an `Article` class that
  has many instances of `Comment` will cache the number of existent comments
  for each article.

NOTE: While these column names are optional, they are in fact reserved by Active Record. Steer clear of reserved keywords unless you want the extra functionality. For example, `type` is a reserved keyword used to designate a table using Single Table Inheritance (STI). If you are not using STI, try an analogous keyword like "context", that may still accurately describe the data you are modeling.

Creating Active Record Models
-----------------------------

When generating an application, an abstract `ApplicationRecord` class will be
created in `app/models/application_record.rb`. This is the base class for all
models in an app, and it's what turns a regular ruby class into an Active Record
model.

To create Active Record models, subclass the `ApplicationRecord` class and you're good to go:

```ruby
class Product < ApplicationRecord
end
```

This will create a `Product` model, mapped to a `products` table at the
database. By doing this you'll also have the ability to map the columns of each
row in that table with the attributes of the instances of your model. Suppose
that the `products` table was created using an SQL (or one of its extensions) statement like:

```sql
CREATE TABLE products (
  id int(11) NOT NULL auto_increment,
  name varchar(255),
  PRIMARY KEY  (id)
);
```

The schema above declares a table with two columns: `id` and `name`. Each row of
this table represents a certain product with these two parameters. Thus, you
would be able to write code like the following:

```ruby
p = Product.new
p.name = "Some Book"
puts p.name # "Some Book"
```

Overriding the Naming Conventions
---------------------------------

What if you need to follow a different naming convention or need to use your
Rails application with a legacy database? No problem, you can easily override
the default conventions.

Since `ApplicationRecord` inherits from `ActiveRecord::Base`, your application's
models will have a number of helpful methods available to them. For example, you
can use the `ActiveRecord::Base.table_name=` method to customize the table name
that should be used:

```ruby
class Product < ApplicationRecord
  self.table_name = "my_products"
end
```

If you do so, you will have to manually define the class name that is hosting
the fixtures (`my_products.yml`) using the `set_fixture_class` method in your
test definition:

```ruby
# test/models/product_test.rb
class ProductTest < ActiveSupport::TestCase
  set_fixture_class my_products: Product
  fixtures :my_products
  # ...
end
```

It's also possible to override the column that should be used as the table's
primary key using the `ActiveRecord::Base.primary_key=` method:

```ruby
class Product < ApplicationRecord
  self.primary_key = "product_id"
end
```

NOTE: **Active Record does not recommend using non-primary key columns named `id`.**
Using a column named `id` which is not a single-column primary key complicates the access to the column value.
The application will have to use the [`id_value`][] alias attribute to access the value of the non-PK `id` column.

[`id_value`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/ModelSchema.html#method-i-id_value

NOTE: If you try to create a column named `id` which is not the primary key,
Rails will throw an error during migrations such as:
`you can't redefine the primary key column 'id' on 'my_products'.`
`To define a custom primary key, pass { id: false } to create_table.`

CRUD: Reading and Writing Data
------------------------------

CRUD is an acronym for the four verbs we use to operate on data: **C**reate,
**R**ead, **U**pdate and **D**elete. Active Record automatically creates methods
to allow an application to read and manipulate data stored within its tables.

### Create

Active Record objects can be created from a hash, a block, or have their
attributes manually set after creation. The `new` method will return a new
object while `create` will return the object and save it to the database.

For example, given a model `User` with attributes of `name` and `occupation`,
the `create` method call will create and save a new record into the database:

```ruby
user = User.create(name: "David", occupation: "Code Artist")
```

Using the `new` method, an object can be instantiated without being saved:

```ruby
user = User.new
user.name = "David"
user.occupation = "Code Artist"
```

A call to `user.save` will commit the record to the database.

Finally, if a block is provided, both `create` and `new` will yield the new
object to that block for initialization, while only `create` will persist
the resulting object to the database:

```ruby
user = User.new do |u|
  u.name = "David"
  u.occupation = "Code Artist"
end
```

### Read

Active Record provides a rich API for accessing data within a database. Below
are a few examples of different data access methods provided by Active Record.

```ruby
# return a collection with all users
users = User.all
```

```ruby
# return the first user
user = User.first
```

```ruby
# return the first user named David
david = User.find_by(name: 'David')
```

```ruby
# find all users named David who are Code Artists and sort by created_at in reverse chronological order
users = User.where(name: 'David', occupation: 'Code Artist').order(created_at: :desc)
```

You can learn more about querying an Active Record model in the [Active Record
Query Interface](active_record_querying.html) guide.

### Update

Once an Active Record object has been retrieved, its attributes can be modified
and it can be saved to the database.

```ruby
user = User.find_by(name: 'David')
user.name = 'Dave'
user.save
```

A shorthand for this is to use a hash mapping attribute names to the desired
value, like so:

```ruby
user = User.find_by(name: 'David')
user.update(name: 'Dave')
```

This is most useful when updating several attributes at once.

If you'd like to update several records in bulk **without callbacks or
validations**, you can update the database directly using `update_all`:

```ruby
User.update_all max_login_attempts: 3, must_change_password: true
```

### Delete

Likewise, once retrieved, an Active Record object can be destroyed, which removes
it from the database.

```ruby
user = User.find_by(name: 'David')
user.destroy
```

If you'd like to delete several records in bulk, you may use `destroy_by`
or `destroy_all` method:

```ruby
# find and delete all users named David
User.destroy_by(name: 'David')

# delete all users
User.destroy_all
```

Validations
-----------

Active Record allows you to validate the state of a model before it gets written
into the database. There are several methods that you can use to check your
models and validate that an attribute value is not empty, is unique and not
already in the database, follows a specific format, and many more.

Methods like `save`, `create` and `update` validate a model before persisting
it to the database. When a model is invalid these methods return `false` and no
database operations are performed. All of these methods have a bang counterpart
(that is, `save!`, `create!` and `update!`), which are stricter in that they
raise an `ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid` exception when validation fails.
A quick example to illustrate:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  validates :name, presence: true
end
```

```irb
irb> user = User.new
irb> user.save
=> false
irb> user.save!
ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid: Validation failed: Name can't be blank
```

You can learn more about validations in the [Active Record Validations
guide](active_record_validations.html).

Callbacks
---------

Active Record callbacks allow you to attach code to certain events in the
life-cycle of your models. This enables you to add behavior to your models by
transparently executing code when those events occur, like when you create a new
record, update it, destroy it, and so on.

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  after_create :log_new_user

  private
    def log_new_user
      puts "A new user was registered"
    end
end
```

```irb
irb> @user = User.create
A new user was registered
```

You can learn more about callbacks in the [Active Record Callbacks
guide](active_record_callbacks.html).

Migrations
----------

Rails provides a convenient way to manage changes to a database schema via
migrations. Migrations are written in a domain-specific language and stored
in files which are executed against any database that Active Record supports.

Here's a migration that creates a new table called `publications`:

```ruby
class CreatePublications < ActiveRecord::Migration[7.2]
  def change
    create_table :publications do |t|
      t.string :title
      t.text :description
      t.references :publication_type
      t.references :publisher, polymorphic: true
      t.boolean :single_issue

      t.timestamps
    end
  end
end
```

Note that the above code is database-agnostic: it will run in MySQL,
PostgreSQL, SQLite, and others.

Rails keeps track of which migrations have been committed to the database and stores them
in a neighboring table in that same database called `schema_migrations`.

To run the migration and create the table, you'd run `bin/rails db:migrate`,
and to roll it back and delete the table, `bin/rails db:rollback`.

You can learn more about migrations in the [Active Record Migrations
guide](active_record_migrations.html).

Associations
------------

Active Record associations allow you to define relationships between models.
Associations can be used to describe one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many
relationships. For example, a relationship like “Author has many Books” can be
defined as follows:

```ruby
class Author < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :books
end
```

The Author class now has methods to add and remove books to an author, and much
more.

You can learn more about associations in the [Active Record Associations
guide](association_basics.html).

Commit message:

Guides: Mention `Date` and `Time` column naming convention [ci skip]
Elaborate on the `_on` and `_at` suffix Active Record column naming
convention for `Date` and `Time` values.

*Time columns* - Columns that Active Record transforms into `Time` and
`DateTime` instances should be named following the pattern `action_at`
(e.g. `deleted_at`, `published_at`).

*Date columns* - Columns that Active Record transforms into `Date`
instances should be named following the pattern `action_on` (e.g.
`deleted_on`, `published_on`).

guides/source/active_record_basics.md, after:

**DO NOT READ THIS FILE ON GITHUB, GUIDES ARE PUBLISHED ON https://guides.rubyonrails.org.**

Active Record Basics
====================

This guide is an introduction to Active Record.

After reading this guide, you will know:

* What Object Relational Mapping and Active Record are and how they are used in
  Rails.
* How Active Record fits into the Model-View-Controller paradigm.
* How to use Active Record models to manipulate data stored in a relational
  database.
* Active Record schema naming conventions.
* The concepts of database migrations, validations, callbacks, and associations.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is Active Record?
----------------------

Active Record is the M in [MVC][] - the model - which is the layer of the system
responsible for representing business data and logic. Active Record facilitates
the creation and use of business objects whose data requires persistent storage
to a database. It is an implementation of the Active Record pattern which itself
is a description of an Object Relational Mapping system.

### The Active Record Pattern

[Active Record was described by Martin Fowler][MFAR] in his book _Patterns of
Enterprise Application Architecture_. In Active Record, objects carry both
persistent data and behavior which operates on that data. Active Record takes
the opinion that ensuring data access logic as part of the object will educate
users of that object on how to write to and read from the database.

### Object Relational Mapping

[Object Relational Mapping][ORM], commonly referred to as its abbreviation ORM,
is a technique that connects the rich objects of an application to tables in a
relational database management system. Using ORM, the properties and
relationships of the objects in an application can be easily stored and
retrieved from a database without writing SQL statements directly and with less
overall database access code.

NOTE: Basic knowledge of relational database management systems (RDBMS) and
structured query language (SQL) is helpful in order to fully understand Active
Record. Please refer to [this tutorial][sqlcourse] (or [this one][rdbmsinfo]) or
study them by other means if you would like to learn more.

### Active Record as an ORM Framework

Active Record gives us several mechanisms, the most important being the ability
to:

* Represent models and their data.
* Represent associations between these models.
* Represent inheritance hierarchies through related models.
* Validate models before they get persisted to the database.
* Perform database operations in an object-oriented fashion.

[MVC]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller
[MFAR]: https://www.martinfowler.com/eaaCatalog/activeRecord.html
[ORM]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-relational_mapping
[sqlcourse]: https://www.khanacademy.org/computing/computer-programming/sql
[rdbmsinfo]: https://www.devart.com/what-is-rdbms/

Convention over Configuration in Active Record
----------------------------------------------

When writing applications using other programming languages or frameworks, it
may be necessary to write a lot of configuration code. This is particularly true
for ORM frameworks in general. However, if you follow the conventions adopted by
Rails, you'll need to write very little configuration (in some cases no
configuration at all) when creating Active Record models. The idea is that if
you configure your applications in the very same way most of the time then this
should be the default way. Thus, explicit configuration would be needed
only in those cases where you can't follow the standard convention.

### Naming Conventions

By default, Active Record uses some naming conventions to find out how the
mapping between models and database tables should be created. Rails will
pluralize your class names to find the respective database table. So, for
a class `Book`, you should have a database table called **books**. The Rails
pluralization mechanisms are very powerful, being capable of pluralizing (and
singularizing) both regular and irregular words. When using class names composed
of two or more words, the model class name should follow the Ruby conventions,
using the CamelCase form, while the table name must use the snake_case form. Examples:

* Model Class - Singular with the first letter of each word capitalized (e.g., `BookClub`).
* Database Table - Plural with underscores separating words (e.g., `book_clubs`).

| Model / Class    | Table / Schema |
| ---------------- | -------------- |
| `Article`        | `articles`     |
| `LineItem`       | `line_items`   |
| `Deer`           | `deers`        |
| `Mouse`          | `mice`         |
| `Person`         | `people`       |

### Schema Conventions

Active Record uses naming conventions for the columns in database tables,
depending on the purpose of these columns.

* **Foreign keys** - These fields should be named following the pattern
  `singularized_table_name_id` (e.g., `item_id`, `order_id`). These are the
  fields that Active Record will look for when you create associations between
  your models.
* **Primary keys** - By default, Active Record will use an integer column named
  `id` as the table's primary key (`bigint` for PostgreSQL and MySQL, `integer`
  for SQLite). When using [Active Record Migrations](active_record_migrations.html)
  to create your tables, this column will be automatically created.
* **Time columns** - Columns that Active Record transforms into `Time` and
  `DateTime` instances should be named following the pattern `action_at` (e.g.
  `deleted_at`, `published_at`).
* **Date columns** - Columns that Active Record transforms into `Date` instances
  should be named following the pattern `action_on` (e.g. `born_on`,
  `released_on`).

There are also some optional column names that will add additional features
to Active Record instances:

* `created_at` - Automatically gets set to the current date and time when the
  record is first created.
* `updated_at` - Automatically gets set to the current date and time whenever
  the record is created or updated.
* `lock_version` - Adds [optimistic
  locking](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Locking.html) to
  a model.
* `type` - Specifies that the model uses [Single Table
  Inheritance](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Base.html#class-ActiveRecord::Base-label-Single+table+inheritance).
* `(association_name)_type` - Stores the type for
  [polymorphic associations](association_basics.html#polymorphic-associations).
* `(table_name)_count` - Used to cache the number of belonging objects on
  associations. For example, a `comments_count` column in an `Article` class that
  has many instances of `Comment` will cache the number of existent comments
  for each article.

NOTE: While these column names are optional, they are in fact reserved by Active Record. Steer clear of reserved keywords unless you want the extra functionality. For example, `type` is a reserved keyword used to designate a table using Single Table Inheritance (STI). If you are not using STI, try an analogous keyword like "context", that may still accurately describe the data you are modeling.

Creating Active Record Models
-----------------------------

When generating an application, an abstract `ApplicationRecord` class will be
created in `app/models/application_record.rb`. This is the base class for all
models in an app, and it's what turns a regular ruby class into an Active Record
model.

To create Active Record models, subclass the `ApplicationRecord` class and you're good to go:

```ruby
class Product < ApplicationRecord
end
```

This will create a `Product` model, mapped to a `products` table at the
database. By doing this you'll also have the ability to map the columns of each
row in that table with the attributes of the instances of your model. Suppose
that the `products` table was created using an SQL (or one of its extensions) statement like:

```sql
CREATE TABLE products (
  id int(11) NOT NULL auto_increment,
  name varchar(255),
  PRIMARY KEY  (id)
);
```

The schema above declares a table with two columns: `id` and `name`. Each row of
this table represents a certain product with these two parameters. Thus, you
would be able to write code like the following:

```ruby
p = Product.new
p.name = "Some Book"
puts p.name # "Some Book"
```

Overriding the Naming Conventions
---------------------------------

What if you need to follow a different naming convention or need to use your
Rails application with a legacy database? No problem, you can easily override
the default conventions.

Since `ApplicationRecord` inherits from `ActiveRecord::Base`, your application's
models will have a number of helpful methods available to them. For example, you
can use the `ActiveRecord::Base.table_name=` method to customize the table name
that should be used:

```ruby
class Product < ApplicationRecord
  self.table_name = "my_products"
end
```

If you do so, you will have to manually define the class name that is hosting
the fixtures (`my_products.yml`) using the `set_fixture_class` method in your
test definition:

```ruby
# test/models/product_test.rb
class ProductTest < ActiveSupport::TestCase
  set_fixture_class my_products: Product
  fixtures :my_products
  # ...
end
```

It's also possible to override the column that should be used as the table's
primary key using the `ActiveRecord::Base.primary_key=` method:

```ruby
class Product < ApplicationRecord
  self.primary_key = "product_id"
end
```

NOTE: **Active Record does not recommend using non-primary key columns named `id`.**
Using a column named `id` which is not a single-column primary key complicates the access to the column value.
The application will have to use the [`id_value`][] alias attribute to access the value of the non-PK `id` column.

[`id_value`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/ModelSchema.html#method-i-id_value

NOTE: If you try to create a column named `id` which is not the primary key,
Rails will throw an error during migrations such as:
`you can't redefine the primary key column 'id' on 'my_products'.`
`To define a custom primary key, pass { id: false } to create_table.`

CRUD: Reading and Writing Data
------------------------------

CRUD is an acronym for the four verbs we use to operate on data: **C**reate,
**R**ead, **U**pdate and **D**elete. Active Record automatically creates methods
to allow an application to read and manipulate data stored within its tables.

### Create

Active Record objects can be created from a hash, a block, or have their
attributes manually set after creation. The `new` method will return a new
object while `create` will return the object and save it to the database.

For example, given a model `User` with attributes of `name` and `occupation`,
the `create` method call will create and save a new record into the database:

```ruby
user = User.create(name: "David", occupation: "Code Artist")
```

Using the `new` method, an object can be instantiated without being saved:

```ruby
user = User.new
user.name = "David"
user.occupation = "Code Artist"
```

A call to `user.save` will commit the record to the database.

Finally, if a block is provided, both `create` and `new` will yield the new
object to that block for initialization, while only `create` will persist
the resulting object to the database:

```ruby
user = User.new do |u|
  u.name = "David"
  u.occupation = "Code Artist"
end
```

### Read

Active Record provides a rich API for accessing data within a database. Below
are a few examples of different data access methods provided by Active Record.

```ruby
# return a collection with all users
users = User.all
```

```ruby
# return the first user
user = User.first
```

```ruby
# return the first user named David
david = User.find_by(name: 'David')
```

```ruby
# find all users named David who are Code Artists and sort by created_at in reverse chronological order
users = User.where(name: 'David', occupation: 'Code Artist').order(created_at: :desc)
```

You can learn more about querying an Active Record model in the [Active Record
Query Interface](active_record_querying.html) guide.

### Update

Once an Active Record object has been retrieved, its attributes can be modified
and it can be saved to the database.

```ruby
user = User.find_by(name: 'David')
user.name = 'Dave'
user.save
```

A shorthand for this is to use a hash mapping attribute names to the desired
value, like so:

```ruby
user = User.find_by(name: 'David')
user.update(name: 'Dave')
```

This is most useful when updating several attributes at once.

If you'd like to update several records in bulk **without callbacks or
validations**, you can update the database directly using `update_all`:

```ruby
User.update_all max_login_attempts: 3, must_change_password: true
```

### Delete

Likewise, once retrieved, an Active Record object can be destroyed, which removes
it from the database.

```ruby
user = User.find_by(name: 'David')
user.destroy
```

If you'd like to delete several records in bulk, you may use `destroy_by`
or `destroy_all` method:

```ruby
# find and delete all users named David
User.destroy_by(name: 'David')

# delete all users
User.destroy_all
```

Validations
-----------

Active Record allows you to validate the state of a model before it gets written
into the database. There are several methods that you can use to check your
models and validate that an attribute value is not empty, is unique and not
already in the database, follows a specific format, and many more.

Methods like `save`, `create` and `update` validate a model before persisting
it to the database. When a model is invalid these methods return `false` and no
database operations are performed. All of these methods have a bang counterpart
(that is, `save!`, `create!` and `update!`), which are stricter in that they
raise an `ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid` exception when validation fails.
A quick example to illustrate:

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  validates :name, presence: true
end
```

```irb
irb> user = User.new
irb> user.save
=> false
irb> user.save!
ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid: Validation failed: Name can't be blank
```

You can learn more about validations in the [Active Record Validations
guide](active_record_validations.html).

Callbacks
---------

Active Record callbacks allow you to attach code to certain events in the
life-cycle of your models. This enables you to add behavior to your models by
transparently executing code when those events occur, like when you create a new
record, update it, destroy it, and so on.

```ruby
class User < ApplicationRecord
  after_create :log_new_user

  private
    def log_new_user
      puts "A new user was registered"
    end
end
```

```irb
irb> @user = User.create
A new user was registered
```

You can learn more about callbacks in the [Active Record Callbacks
guide](active_record_callbacks.html).

Migrations
----------

Rails provides a convenient way to manage changes to a database schema via
migrations. Migrations are written in a domain-specific language and stored
in files which are executed against any database that Active Record supports.

Here's a migration that creates a new table called `publications`:

```ruby
class CreatePublications < ActiveRecord::Migration[7.2]
  def change
    create_table :publications do |t|
      t.string :title
      t.text :description
      t.references :publication_type
      t.references :publisher, polymorphic: true
      t.boolean :single_issue

      t.timestamps
    end
  end
end
```

Note that the above code is database-agnostic: it will run in MySQL,
PostgreSQL, SQLite, and others.

Rails keeps track of which migrations have been committed to the database and stores them
in a neighboring table in that same database called `schema_migrations`.

To run the migration and create the table, you'd run `bin/rails db:migrate`,
and to roll it back and delete the table, `bin/rails db:rollback`.

You can learn more about migrations in the [Active Record Migrations
guide](active_record_migrations.html).

Associations
------------

Active Record associations allow you to define relationships between models.
Associations can be used to describe one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many
relationships. For example, a relationship like “Author has many Books” can be
defined as follows:

```ruby
class Author < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :books
end
```

The Author class now has methods to add and remove books to an author, and much
more.

You can learn more about associations in the [Active Record Associations
guide](association_basics.html).
