**DO NOT READ THIS FILE ON GITHUB, GUIDES ARE PUBLISHED ON https://guides.rubyonrails.org.**

Action View Overview
====================

After reading this guide, you will know:

* What Action View is and how to use it with Rails.
* How best to use templates, partials, and layouts.
* How to use localized views.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is Action View?
--------------------

Action View is the V in [MVC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Model%E2%80%93view%E2%80%93controller). [Action Controller](action_controller_overview.html) and Action View work together to handle web requests. Action Controller is concerned with communicating with the model layer (of MVC) and retrieving data. Action View is then responsible for compiling a response to the web request using that data.

Action View templates (also referred to simply as "views") are written using Embedded Ruby (ERB), which allows using Ruby code within HTML documents.

Action View provides many [helper](#helpers) classes for dynamically generating HTML tags for forms, dates, and strings. It's also easy to add new custom helpers to your application as needed.

NOTE: Some features of Action View are tied to Active Record, but that doesn't mean Action View depends on Active Record. Action View is an independent package that can be used with any sort of Ruby libraries.

Using Action View with Rails
----------------------------

Action View templates (aka "views") are stored in a subdirectory in the `app/views` directory. There is a subdirectory matching the name of each controller. The view files inside that subdirectory are used to render specific views as a response to controller actions. The template files follow a naming convention.

For example, when we use scaffolding to generate an `article` resource, Rails generate the following files in `app/views/articles`:

```bash
$ bin/rails generate scaffold article
      [...]
      invoke  scaffold_controller
      create    app/controllers/articles_controller.rb
      invoke    erb
      create      app/views/articles
      create      app/views/articles/index.html.erb
      create      app/views/articles/edit.html.erb
      create      app/views/articles/show.html.erb
      create      app/views/articles/new.html.erb
      create      app/views/articles/_form.html.erb
      [...]
```

The naming convention is that the views share their name with the associated controller action. For example the `index.html.erb`, `edit.html.erb`, etc. above.

By following this naming convention, Rails will automatically find and render the matching view at the end of a controller action, without you having to  specify it. For example, the `index` action in the `articles_controller.rb` will automatically render the `index.html.erb` view inside the `app/views/articles/` directory. The name and the location of the file are both important.

The final HTML returned to the client is composed of a combination of the `.html.erb` ERB file, a layout template that wraps it, and all the partials that the ERB file may reference. In the rest of this guide, you will find more details about each of the three components: `Templates`, `Partials`, `Layouts`.

Templates
---------

Action View templates can be written in different formats. If the template file has a `.erb` extension, it uses embedded Ruby to build a HTML response. If the template has a `.jbuilder` extension, it uses the [Jbuilder](https://github.com/rails/jbuilder) gem to build a JSON response. And a template with a `.builder` extension uses the [`Builder::XmlMarkup`](https://github.com/jimweirich/builder) library to build an XML response.

Rails uses the file extension to distinguish among multiple template systems. For example, an HTML file using the ERB template system will have `.html.erb` as a file extension.

### ERB

When Rails processes the ERB view templates ending with `.html.erb`, it evaluates the embedded Ruby code and replaces the ERB tags with their respective outputs. The dynamic content generated by evaluating the embedded Ruby code is combined with the static HTML markup to form the final HTML response.

Within an ERB template, Ruby code can be included using both `<% %>` and `<%= %>` tags. The difference is that `<% %>` tag (without the `=`) is used to execute Ruby code that does not return anything, such as conditions, loops, or blocks. The tag `<%= %>` is used for embedded Ruby code that generates an output and you want to render that output in the template.

In the following example:

```html+erb
<h1>Names</h1>
<% @people.each do |person| %>
  Name: <%= person.name %><br>
<% end %>
```

The loop is set up using regular embedding tags (`<% %>`) and the name is inserted using the output embedding tags (`<%= %>`).

Note that functions such as `print` and `puts` won't be rendered to the view with ERB templates. So something like this would not work:

```html+erb
<%# WRONG %>
Hi, Mr. <% puts "Frodo" %>
```

To suppress leading and trailing whitespaces, you can use `<%-` `-%>` interchangeably with `<%` and `%>`.

### Jbuilder

`Jbuilder` is a gem that's maintained by the Rails team and included in the default Rails `Gemfile`. It is used to build a JSON response.

If you don't have it, you can add the following to your `Gemfile`:

```ruby
gem "jbuilder"
```

A `Jbuilder` object named `json` is automatically made available to templates with
a `.jbuilder` extension.

Here is a basic example:

```ruby
json.name("Alex")
json.email("alex@example.com")
```

would produce:

```json
{
  "name": "Alex",
  "email": "alex@example.com"
}
```

See the [Jbuilder documentation](https://github.com/rails/jbuilder#jbuilder) for
more examples.

### Builder

Builder templates are a more programmatic alternative to ERB. It's similar to `JBuilder` but is used to generate XML, instead of JSON.

An `XmlMarkup` object named `xml` is automatically made available to templates with a `.builder` extension.

Here is a basic examples:

```ruby
xml.em("emphasized")
xml.em { xml.b("emph & bold") }
xml.a("A Link", "href" => "https://rubyonrails.org")
xml.target("name" => "compile", "option" => "fast")
```

which would produce:

```html
<em>emphasized</em>
<em><b>emph &amp; bold</b></em>
<a href="https://rubyonrails.org">A link</a>
<target option="fast" name="compile" />
```

Any method with a block will be treated as an XML markup tag with nested markup in the block. For example, the following:

```ruby
xml.div {
  xml.h1(@person.name)
  xml.p(@person.bio)
}
```

would produce something like:

```html
<div>
  <h1>David Heinemeier Hansson</h1>
  <p>A product of Danish Design during the Winter of '79...</p>
</div>
```

### Caching

By default, Rails will compile each template to a method to render it. In the development environment, when you alter a template, Rails will check the file's modification time and recompile it.

There is also Fragment Caching for when different parts of the page need to be cached and expired separately. Learn more about it in the [caching](caching_with_rails.html#fragment-caching) guide.

Partials
--------

Partial templates - usually just called "partials" - are a way of breaking up the view templates into smaller reusable chunks. With partials, you can extract a piece of code from your main template to separate smaller files and render that file in the main template. You can also pass data to the partial files from the main template.

Let's see this in action with some examples:

### Rendering Partials

To render a partial as part of a view, you use the [`render`](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/RenderingHelper.html#method-i-render) method within the view:

```erb
<%= render "product" %>
```

This will render a file named `_product.html.erb` within that view. Partial file names start with leading underscore character by convention. The file name distinguishes partials from regular views. However, no underscore is used when referring to partials for rendering within a view. This is true even when you reference a partial from another directory:

```erb
<%= render "application/product" %>
```

That code will look for a partial file named `_product.html.erb` in `app/views/application/`.

### Using Partials to Simplify Views

One way to use partials is to treat them as the equivalent of methods. A way to move details out of a view so that you can grasp what's going on more easily. For example, you might have a view that looks like this:

```html+erb
<%= render "application/ad_banner" %>

<h1>Products</h1>

<p>Here are a few of our fine products:</p>
<% @products.each do |product| %>
  <%= render partial: "product", locals: { product: product } %>
<% end %>

<%= render "application/footer" %>
```

Here, the `_ad_banner.html.erb` and `_footer.html.erb` partials could contain content that is shared among many pages in your application. You don't need to see the details of these sections when you're focused on a Products' page.

The above example also uses the `_product.html.erb` partial. This partial contains details for rendering an individual product and is used to render each product in the collection `@products`.

### Partial Template Inheritance

TIP: View partials rely on the same [Template
Inheritance](/layouts_and_rendering.html#template-inheritance) as templates and
layouts, so templates rendered by controllers that inherit from
`ApplicationController` can render view partials declared in
`app/views/application`.

In addition to resolving partials with the inheritance chain, controllers can
also override default partials with the inheritance chain. For example, a
`ProductsController` that inherits from `ApplicationController` will resolve a
call to `<%= render "ad_banner" %>` by first searching for
`app/views/products/_ad_banner.html.erb` before falling back to
`app/views/application/_ad_banner.html.erb`.

### Passing Data to Partials With `locals` Option

When rendering a partial, we can pass data to the partial from the rendering view. We use the `locals:` options hash for this. Each key in the `locals:` option is available as a partial-local variable:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/products/show.html.erb %>

<%= render partial: "products/product", locals: { my_product: @product } %>

<%# app/views/products/_product.html.erb %>

<%= tag.div id: dom_id(my_product) do %>
  <h1><%= my_product.name %></h1>
<% end %>
```

In the above example, `my_product` is the local variable available in the partial. It was assigned the value of @product in the original view.

Note that typically we'd simply call this local variable `product`. We are using `my_product` to distinguish it from the instance variable name and template name.

If a template refers to a variable that isn't passed into the view as part of
the `locals:` option, the template will raise an `ActionView::Template::Error`:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/products/_product.html.erb %>

<%= tag.div id: dom_id(product) do %>
  <h1><%= product.name %></h1>

  <%# => raises ActionView::Template::Error for `product_reviews` %>
  <% product_reviews.each do |review| %>
    <%# ... %>
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

### Using `local_assigns`

There is a helper method [local_assigns][] available in each partial. You can access each key in the `locals:` option using this method. The value of `local_assigns[:some_key]` will be `nil` if the partial was not rendered with `:some_key` set.

For example, `product_reviews` is `nil` in the below example since only `product` is set in `locals:`:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/products/show.html.erb %>

<%= render partial: "products/product", locals: { product: @product } %>

<%# app/views/products/_product.html.erb %>

<% local_assigns[:product]          # => "#<Product:0x0000000109ec5d10>" %>
<% local_assigns[:product_reviews]  # => nil %>
```

One use case for `local_assigns` is optionally passing in a local variable and then conditionally doing something in the partial based on whether the local variable is set. For example:

```html+erb
<% if local_assigns[:redirect] %>
  <%= form.hidden_field :redirect, value: true %>
<% end %>
```

Another example from Active Storage's `_blob.html.erb`. This one sets the size based on whether `in_gallery` local variable is set when rendering the partial that contains this line:

```html+erb
<%= image_tag blob.representation(resize_to_limit: local_assigns[:in_gallery] ? [ 800, 600 ] : [ 1024, 768 ]) %>
```

### `local_assigns` with Pattern Matching

Since `local_assigns` is a `Hash`, it's compatible with [Ruby 3.1's pattern matching assignment operator](https://docs.ruby-lang.org/en/master/syntax/pattern_matching_rdoc.html):

```ruby
local_assigns => { product:, **options }
product # => "#<Product:0x0000000109ec5d10>"
options # => {}
```

When keys other than `:product` are assigned into a partial-local `Hash`
variable, they can be splatted into helper method calls:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/products/_product.html.erb %>

<% local_assigns => { product:, **options } %>

<%= tag.div id: dom_id(product), **options do %>
  <h1><%= product.name %></h1>
<% end %>

<%# app/views/products/show.html.erb %>

<%= render "products/product", product: @product, class: "card" %>
<%# => <div id="product_1" class="card">
  #      <h1>A widget</h1>
  #    </div>
%>
```

Pattern matching assignment also supports variable renaming:

```ruby
local_assigns => { product: record }
product             # => "#<Product:0x0000000109ec5d10>"
record              # => "#<Product:0x0000000109ec5d10>"
product == record   # => true
```

Since `local_assigns` returns a `Hash` instance, you can conditionally read a variable, then fall back to a default value when the key isn't part of the `locals:` options:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/products/_product.html.erb %>

<% local_assigns.fetch(:related_products, []).each do |related_product| %>
  <%# ... %>
<% end %>
```

Combining Ruby 3.1's pattern matching assignment with calls to [Hash#with_defaults](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Hash.html#method-i-with_defaults) enables compact partial-local default variable assignments:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/products/_product.html.erb %>

<% local_assigns.with_defaults(related_products: []) => { product:, related_products: } %>

<%= tag.div id: dom_id(product) do %>
  <h1><%= product.name %></h1>

  <% related_products.each do |related_product| %>
    <%# ... %>
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

INFO: By default, partials will accept any `locals` as keyword arguments. To define what `locals` a partial accepts, use a `locals:` magic comment. To learn more, read about [Strict Locals](#strict-locals).

[local_assigns]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Template.html#method-i-local_assigns

### `render` without `partial` and `locals` Options

In the above examples, `render` takes 2 options: `partial` and `locals`. But if
these are the only options you need to use, you can skip the keys, `partial` and `locals` and specify the values only.

For example, instead of:

```erb
<%= render partial: "product", locals: { product: @product } %>
```

You can write:

```erb
<%= render "product", product: @product %>
```

You can also use this shorthand based on conventions:

```erb
<%= render @product %>
```

This will look for a partial named `_product.html.erb` in `app/views/products/`, as well as pass a local named `product` set to the value `@product`.


### The `as` and `object` Options

By default `ActionView::Partials::PartialRenderer` has its object in a local variable with the same name as the template. So, given:

```erb
<%= render partial: "product" %>
```

within the `_product.html.erb` partial we'll get `@product` instance variable in the local variable `product`, as if we had written:

```erb
<%= render partial: "product", locals: { product: @product } %>
```

The `object` option can be used to specify a different name. This is useful when the template's object is elsewhere (e.g. in a different instance variable or in a local variable).

For example, instead of:

```erb
<%= render partial: "product", locals: { product: @item } %>
```

we can write:

```erb
<%= render partial: "product", object: @item %>
```

This assigns a partial local variable named `product` to the instance variable `@item`. What if we wanted to change the local variable name from `product` by default to something else? We can use the `:as` option for that.

With the `as` option, we can specify a different name for the local variable like this:

```erb
<%= render partial: "product", object: @item, as: "item" %>
```

This is equivalent to

```erb
<%= render partial: "product", locals: { item: @item } %>
```

### Rendering Collections

It's common for a view to iterate over a collection, such as `@products`, and render a partial template for each object in the collection. This pattern has been implemented as a single method that accepts an array and renders a partial for each one of the elements in the array.

So this example for rendering all the products:

```erb
<% @products.each do |product| %>
  <%= render partial: "product", locals: { product: product } %>
<% end %>
```

can be rewritten in a single line:

```erb
<%= render partial: "product", collection: @products %>
```

When a partial is called with a collection, the individual instances of the partial have access to the member of the collection being rendered via a variable named after the partial. In this case, since the partial is `_product.html.erb`, you can use `product` to refer to the collection member that is being rendered.

You can also use the following conventions based shorthand syntax for rendering collections.

```erb
<%= render @products %>
```

The above assumes that `@products` is a collection of `Product` instances. Rails uses naming conventions to determine the name of the partial to use by looking at the model name in the collection, `Product` in this case. In fact, you can even render a collection made up of instances of different models using this shorthand, and Rails will choose the proper partial for each member of the collection.

### Spacer Templates

You can also specify a second partial to be rendered between instances of the main partial by using the `:spacer_template` option:

```erb
<%= render partial: @products, spacer_template: "product_ruler" %>
```

Rails will render the `_product_ruler.html.erb` partial (with no data passed to it) between each pair of `_product.html.erb` partials.

### Counter Variables

Rails also makes a counter variable available within a partial called by the collection. The variable is named after the title of the partial followed by `_counter`. For example, when rendering a collection `@products` the partial `_product.html.erb` can access the variable `product_counter`. The variable indexes the number of times the partial has been rendered within the enclosing view, starting with a value of `0` on the first render.

```erb
# index.html.erb
<%= render partial: "product", collection: @products %>
```

```erb
# _product.html.erb
<%= product_counter %> # 0 for the first product, 1 for the second product...
```

This also works when the local variable name is changed using the `as:` option. So if you did `as: :item`, the counter variable would be `item_counter`.

### Strict Locals

Action View partial templates will accept any number of `locals` as keyword arguments. You can enforce how many and which `locals` a template accepts, set default value, and more with a `locals:` magic comment.

Here are some examples of the `locals:` magic comment:

```erb
<%# app/views/messages/_message.html.erb %>

<%# locals: (message:) -%>
<%= message %>
```

The above makes `message` a required local variable. Rendering the partial without a `:message` local variable argument will raise an exception:

```ruby
render "messages/message"
# => ActionView::Template::Error: missing local: :message for app/views/messages/_message.html.erb
```

If a default values is set then it can be used if `message` is not passed in `locals:`:

```erb
<%# app/views/messages/_message.html.erb %>

<%# locals: (message: "Hello, world!") -%>
<%= message %>
```

Rendering the partial without a `:message` local variable uses the default value set in the `locals:` magic comment:

```ruby
render "messages/message"
# => "Hello, world!"
```

Rendering the partial with local variables not specified in the `local:` magic comment will also raise an exception:

```ruby
render "messages/message", greeting: "will raise"
# => ActionView::Template::Error: missing local: :greeting for app/views/messages/_message.html.erb
```

You can allow optional local variable arguments with the double splat `**` operator:

```erb

<%# app/views/messages/_message.html.erb %>

<%# locals: (message: "Hello, world!", **attributes) -%>
<%= tag.p(message, **attributes) %>
```

If you set the `locals:` to empty `()`, partial local variable are disabled entirely:

```erb
<%# app/views/messages/_message.html.erb %>

<%# locals: () %>
```

Rendering the partial with *any* local variable arguments will raise an exception:

```ruby
render "messages/message", unknown_local: "will raise"
# => ActionView::Template::Error: no locals accepted for app/views/messages/_message.html.erb
```

Action View will process the `locals:` magic comment in any templating engine that supports `#`-prefixed comments, and will read the magic comment from any line in the partial.

CAUTION: Only keyword arguments are supported. Defining positional or block arguments will raise an Action View Error at render-time.

Layouts
-------

Layouts can be used to render a common view template around the results of Rails controller actions. Typically, a Rails application has a few layouts that pages can be rendered within. For example, an application might have one layout for a logged in user and another for the marketing part of the site. The logged in user layout might include top-level navigation that should be present across many controller actions. The sales layout for a SaaS app might include top-level navigation for things like "Pricing" and "Contact Us" pages. Different layouts typically have a different header and footer content. You can learn more about layouts in the [Layouts and Rendering in Rails](layouts_and_rendering.html) guide.

### Partial Layouts

Partials can have their own layouts applied to them. These layouts are different from those applied to a controller action, but they work in a similar fashion.

Let's say we're displaying an article on a page which should be wrapped in a `div` for display purposes. First, we'll create a new `Article`:

```ruby
Article.create(body: 'Partial Layouts are cool!')
```

In the `show` template, we'll render the `_article` partial wrapped in the `box` layout:

```html+erb
<%# articles/show.html.erb %>
<%= render partial: 'article', layout: 'box', locals: { article: @article } %>
```

The `box` layout simply wraps the `_article` partial in a `div`:

```html+erb
<%# articles/_box.html.erb %>
<div class='box'>
  <%= yield %>
</div>
```

Note that the partial layout has access to the local `article` variable that was passed into the `render` call. Though it is not being used within `_box.html.erb` in this case.

Unlike application-wide layouts, partial layouts still have the underscore prefix in their name.

You can also render a block of code within a partial layout instead of calling `yield`. For example, if we didn't have the `_article` partial, we could do this instead:

```html+erb
<%# articles/show.html.erb %>
<% render(layout: 'box', locals: { article: @article }) do %>
  <div>
    <p><%= article.body %></p>
  </div>
<% end %>
```

Supposing we use the same `_box` partial from above, this would produce the same output as the previous example.

### Collection with Partial Layouts

When rendering collections it is also possible to use the `:layout` option:

```erb
<%= render partial: "article", collection: @articles, layout: "special_layout" %>
```

The layout will be rendered together with the partial for each item in the collection. The current object and object_counter variables, `article` and `article_count` in the above example, will be available in the layout as well, the same way they are within the partial.

Helpers
-------

Rails provides many helper methods to use with Action View. These include methods for:

* Formatting dates, strings and numbers
* Creating HTML links to images, videos, stylesheets, etc...
* Sanitizing content
* Creating forms
* Localizing content

You can learn more about helpers in the [Action View Helpers
Guide](action_view_helpers.html) and the [Action View Form Helpers
Guide](form_helpers.html).

Localized Views
---------------

Action View has the ability to render different templates depending on the current locale.

For example, suppose you have an `ArticlesController` with a show action. By default, calling this action will render `app/views/articles/show.html.erb`. But if you set `I18n.locale = :de`, then `app/views/articles/show.de.html.erb` will be rendered instead. If the localized template isn't present, the undecorated version will be used. This means you're not required to provide localized views for all cases, but they will be preferred and used if available.

You can use the same technique to localize the rescue files in your public directory. For example, setting `I18n.locale = :de` and creating `public/500.de.html` and `public/404.de.html` would allow you to have localized rescue pages.

Since Rails doesn't restrict the symbols that you use to set I18n.locale, you can leverage this system to display different content depending on anything you like. For example, suppose you have some "expert" users that should see different pages from "normal" users. You could add the following to `app/controllers/application_controller.rb`:

```ruby
before_action :set_expert_locale

def set_expert_locale
  I18n.locale = :expert if current_user.expert?
end
```

Then you could create special views like `app/views/articles/show.expert.html.erb` that would only be displayed to expert users.

You can read more about the Rails Internationalization (I18n) API [here](i18n.html).
