guides/source/action_mailbox_basics.md, before:

**DO NOT READ THIS FILE ON GITHUB, GUIDES ARE PUBLISHED ON https://guides.rubyonrails.org.**

Action Mailbox Basics
=====================

This guide provides you with all you need to get started in receiving
emails to your application.

After reading this guide, you will know:

* How to receive email within a Rails application.
* How to configure Action Mailbox.
* How to generate and route emails to a mailbox.
* How to test incoming emails.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is Action Mailbox?
-----------------------

Action Mailbox routes incoming emails to controller-like mailboxes for processing in your Rails application. Action Mailbox is for receiving inbound email, while [Action Mailer](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_mailer_basics.html) is for *sending* emails from your Rails application.

The inbound emails are routed asynchronously using Active Job to one or several dedicated mailboxes. These emails are turned into `InboundEmail` records using Active Record, which are capable of interacting directly with the rest of your domain model.

`InboundEmail` records also provide lifecycle tracking, storage of the original email via Active Storage, and responsible data handling with on-by-default incineration.

Action Mailbox ships with ingresses for external email providers such as Mailgun, Mandrill, Postmark, and SendGrid. You can also handle inbound mails directly via the built-in Exim, Postfix, and Qmail ingresses.

## Setup

Action Mailbox has a few moving parts. First you'll run the Action Mailbox installer. Then configure a chosen ingress for handling incoming email. You're then ready to add Action Mailbox routing, create mailboxes and start processing incoming emails.

To start let's install Action Mailbox:

1. `bin/rails action_mailbox:install` - this will create an `application_mailbox.rb` file and copy over migrations.
2. `bin/rails db:migrate` - this will run the Action Mailbox and Active Storage migrations.

The Action Mailbox table `action_mailbox_inbound_emails` stores incoming message and their processing 'status'.

At this point you can start your rails server and check out `http://localhost:3000/rails/conductor/action_mailbox/inbound_emails`.

The next step is to configure an ingress in your Rails application to specify how incoming emails should be received.

## Ingress Configuration

Configuring ingress involves setting up credentials and endpoint information for the chosen email service. Here are the steps for each of the supported ingress.

### Exim

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from an SMTP relay:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :relay
```

Generate a strong password that Action Mailbox can use to authenticate requests to the relay ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add the password to your application's encrypted credentials under
`action_mailbox.ingress_password`, where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  ingress_password: ...
```

Alternatively, provide the password in the `RAILS_INBOUND_EMAIL_PASSWORD` environment variable.

Configure Exim to pipe inbound emails to `bin/rails action_mailbox:ingress:exim`,
providing the `URL` of the relay ingress and the `INGRESS_PASSWORD` you
previously generated. If your application lived at `https://example.com`, the
full command would look like this:

```bash
$ bin/rails action_mailbox:ingress:exim URL=https://example.com/rails/action_mailbox/relay/inbound_emails INGRESS_PASSWORD=...
```

### Mailgun

Give Action Mailbox your
Mailgun Signing key (which you can find under Settings -> Security & Users -> API security in Mailgun),
so it can authenticate requests to the Mailgun ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add your Signing key to your application's
encrypted credentials under `action_mailbox.mailgun_signing_key`,
where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  mailgun_signing_key: ...
```

Alternatively, provide your Signing key in the `MAILGUN_INGRESS_SIGNING_KEY` environment
variable.

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from Mailgun:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :mailgun
```

[Configure Mailgun](https://documentation.mailgun.com/en/latest/user_manual.html#receiving-forwarding-and-storing-messages)
to forward inbound emails to `/rails/action_mailbox/mailgun/inbound_emails/mime`.
If your application lived at `https://example.com`, you would specify the
fully-qualified URL `https://example.com/rails/action_mailbox/mailgun/inbound_emails/mime`.

### Mandrill

Give Action Mailbox your Mandrill API key, so it can authenticate requests to
the Mandrill ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add your API key to your application's
encrypted credentials under `action_mailbox.mandrill_api_key`,
where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  mandrill_api_key: ...
```

Alternatively, provide your API key in the `MANDRILL_INGRESS_API_KEY`
environment variable.

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from Mandrill:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :mandrill
```

[Configure Mandrill](https://mandrill.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/205583197-Inbound-Email-Processing-Overview)
to route inbound emails to `/rails/action_mailbox/mandrill/inbound_emails`.
If your application lived at `https://example.com`, you would specify
the fully-qualified URL `https://example.com/rails/action_mailbox/mandrill/inbound_emails`.

### Postfix

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from an SMTP relay:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :relay
```

Generate a strong password that Action Mailbox can use to authenticate requests to the relay ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add the password to your application's encrypted credentials under
`action_mailbox.ingress_password`, where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  ingress_password: ...
```

Alternatively, provide the password in the `RAILS_INBOUND_EMAIL_PASSWORD` environment variable.

[Configure Postfix](https://serverfault.com/questions/258469/how-to-configure-postfix-to-pipe-all-incoming-email-to-a-script)
to pipe inbound emails to `bin/rails action_mailbox:ingress:postfix`, providing
the `URL` of the Postfix ingress and the `INGRESS_PASSWORD` you previously
generated. If your application lived at `https://example.com`, the full command
would look like this:

```bash
$ bin/rails action_mailbox:ingress:postfix URL=https://example.com/rails/action_mailbox/relay/inbound_emails INGRESS_PASSWORD=...
```

### Postmark

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from Postmark:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :postmark
```

Generate a strong password that Action Mailbox can use to authenticate
requests to the Postmark ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add the password to your application's
encrypted credentials under `action_mailbox.ingress_password`,
where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  ingress_password: ...
```

Alternatively, provide the password in the `RAILS_INBOUND_EMAIL_PASSWORD`
environment variable.

[Configure Postmark inbound webhook](https://postmarkapp.com/manual#configure-your-inbound-webhook-url)
to forward inbound emails to `/rails/action_mailbox/postmark/inbound_emails` with the username `actionmailbox`
and the password you previously generated. If your application lived at `https://example.com`, you would
configure Postmark with the following fully-qualified URL:

```
https://actionmailbox:PASSWORD@example.com/rails/action_mailbox/postmark/inbound_emails
```

NOTE: When configuring your Postmark inbound webhook, be sure to check the box labeled **"Include raw email content in JSON payload"**.
Action Mailbox needs the raw email content to work.

### Qmail

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from an SMTP relay:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :relay
```

Generate a strong password that Action Mailbox can use to authenticate requests to the relay ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add the password to your application's encrypted credentials under
`action_mailbox.ingress_password`, where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  ingress_password: ...
```

Alternatively, provide the password in the `RAILS_INBOUND_EMAIL_PASSWORD` environment variable.

Configure Qmail to pipe inbound emails to `bin/rails action_mailbox:ingress:qmail`,
providing the `URL` of the relay ingress and the `INGRESS_PASSWORD` you
previously generated. If your application lived at `https://example.com`, the
full command would look like this:

```bash
$ bin/rails action_mailbox:ingress:qmail URL=https://example.com/rails/action_mailbox/relay/inbound_emails INGRESS_PASSWORD=...
```

### SendGrid

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from SendGrid:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :sendgrid
```

Generate a strong password that Action Mailbox can use to authenticate
requests to the SendGrid ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add the password to your application's
encrypted credentials under `action_mailbox.ingress_password`,
where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  ingress_password: ...
```

Alternatively, provide the password in the `RAILS_INBOUND_EMAIL_PASSWORD`
environment variable.

[Configure SendGrid Inbound Parse](https://sendgrid.com/docs/for-developers/parsing-email/setting-up-the-inbound-parse-webhook/)
to forward inbound emails to
`/rails/action_mailbox/sendgrid/inbound_emails` with the username `actionmailbox`
and the password you previously generated. If your application lived at `https://example.com`,
you would configure SendGrid with the following URL:

```
https://actionmailbox:PASSWORD@example.com/rails/action_mailbox/sendgrid/inbound_emails
```

NOTE: When configuring your SendGrid Inbound Parse webhook, be sure to check the box labeled **“Post the raw, full MIME message.”** Action Mailbox needs the raw MIME message to work.

## Process Incoming Email

Processing incoming emails usually entails using the email content to create models, update views, queue background work, etc. in your Rails application.

Before you can start processing incoming emails, you'll need to setup Action Mailbox routing and create mailboxes.

**Configure mailbox routing**

Routes for Action Mailbox are added to the `application_mailbox.rb` file. The regular expression matches the incoming email's `to` field.

```ruby
# app/mailboxes/application_mailbox.rb
class ApplicationMailbox < ActionMailbox::Base
  routing(/^save@/i     => :forwards)
  routing(/@replies\./i => :replies)
end
```

For example, the above will match any email sent to `save@` to a 'forwards' mailbox. Which we need to create.

**Create a mailbox**

```bash
# Generate new mailbox
$ bin/rails generate mailbox forwards
```

This creates a `ForwardsMailbox` class with a `process` method.

**Process email**

```ruby
# app/mailboxes/forwards_mailbox.rb
class ForwardsMailbox < ApplicationMailbox
  # Callbacks specify prerequisites to processing
  before_processing :require_projects

  def process
    # Record the forward on the one project, or…
    if forwarder.projects.one?
      record_forward
    else
      # …involve a second Action Mailer to ask which project to forward into.
      request_forwarding_project
    end
  end

  private
    def require_projects
      if forwarder.projects.none?
        # Use Action Mailers to bounce incoming emails back to sender – this halts processing
        bounce_with Forwards::BounceMailer.no_projects(inbound_email, forwarder: forwarder)
      end
    end

    def record_forward
      forwarder.forwards.create subject: mail.subject, content: mail.content
    end

    def request_forwarding_project
      Forwards::RoutingMailer.choose_project(inbound_email, forwarder: forwarder).deliver_now
    end

    def forwarder
      @forwarder ||= User.find_by(email_address: mail.from)
    end
end
```

## Incineration of InboundEmails

By default, an [`InboundEmail`][] that has been processed will be incinerated after 30 days. The InboundEmail is considered as processed when its status changes to `delivered`, `failed` or `bounced`.

The actual incineration is done via the `IncinerationJob` that's scheduled to run after [`config.action_mailbox.incinerate_after`][] time. This value is set to `30.days` by default, but you can change it in your production.rb configuration. (Note that this far-future incineration scheduling relies on your job queue being able to hold jobs for that long.)

Default data incineration ensures that you're not holding on to people's data unnecessarily after they may have canceled their accounts or deleted their content.

The intention with Action Mailbox processing is that as you process an email, you should extract all the data you need from the email and persist into domain models in your application. The `InboundEmail` simply stays in the system for the extra time to allow for debugging and forensic and then will be deleted.

[`InboundEmail`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/InboundEmail.html
[`config.action_mailbox.incinerate_after`]: configuring.html#config-action-mailbox-incinerate-after

## Working with Action Mailbox in Development

It's helpful to be able to test incoming emails in development without actually
sending and receiving real emails. To accomplish this, there's a conductor
controller mounted at `/rails/conductor/action_mailbox/inbound_emails`,
which gives you an index of all the InboundEmails in the system, their
state of processing, and a form to create a new InboundEmail as well.

## Testing Mailboxes

Example:

```ruby
class ForwardsMailboxTest < ActionMailbox::TestCase
  test "directly recording a client forward for a forwarder and forwardee corresponding to one project" do
    assert_difference -> { people(:david).buckets.first.recordings.count } do
      receive_inbound_email_from_mail \
        to: 'save@example.com',
        from: people(:david).email_address,
        subject: "Fwd: Status update?",
        body: <<~BODY
          --- Begin forwarded message ---
          From: Frank Holland <frank@microsoft.com>

          What's the status?
        BODY
    end

    recording = people(:david).buckets.first.recordings.last
    assert_equal people(:david), recording.creator
    assert_equal "Status update?", recording.forward.subject
    assert_match "What's the status?", recording.forward.content.to_s
  end
end
```

Please refer to the [ActionMailbox::TestHelper API](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/TestHelper.html) for further test helper methods.

Commit message:

mail object and processing status

guides/source/action_mailbox_basics.md, after:

**DO NOT READ THIS FILE ON GITHUB, GUIDES ARE PUBLISHED ON https://guides.rubyonrails.org.**

Action Mailbox Basics
=====================

This guide provides you with all you need to get started in receiving
emails to your application.

After reading this guide, you will know:

* How to receive email within a Rails application.
* How to configure Action Mailbox.
* How to generate and route emails to a mailbox.
* How to test incoming emails.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

What is Action Mailbox?
-----------------------

Action Mailbox routes incoming emails to controller-like mailboxes for processing in your Rails application. Action Mailbox is for receiving inbound email, while [Action Mailer](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_mailer_basics.html) is for *sending* emails from your Rails application.

The inbound emails are routed asynchronously using Active Job to one or several dedicated mailboxes. These emails are turned into `InboundEmail` records using Active Record, which are capable of interacting directly with the rest of your domain model.

`InboundEmail` records also provide lifecycle tracking, storage of the original email via Active Storage, and responsible data handling with on-by-default incineration.

Action Mailbox ships with ingresses for external email providers such as Mailgun, Mandrill, Postmark, and SendGrid. You can also handle inbound mails directly via the built-in Exim, Postfix, and Qmail ingresses.

## Setup

Action Mailbox has a few moving parts. First you'll run the Action Mailbox installer. Then configure a chosen ingress for handling incoming email. You're then ready to add Action Mailbox routing, create mailboxes and start processing incoming emails.

To start let's install Action Mailbox:

1. `bin/rails action_mailbox:install` - this will create an `application_mailbox.rb` file and copy over migrations.
2. `bin/rails db:migrate` - this will run the Action Mailbox and Active Storage migrations.

The Action Mailbox table `action_mailbox_inbound_emails` stores incoming message and their processing 'status'.

At this point you can start your rails server and check out `http://localhost:3000/rails/conductor/action_mailbox/inbound_emails`.

The next step is to configure an ingress in your Rails application to specify how incoming emails should be received.

## Ingress Configuration

Configuring ingress involves setting up credentials and endpoint information for the chosen email service. Here are the steps for each of the supported ingress.

### Exim

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from an SMTP relay:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :relay
```

Generate a strong password that Action Mailbox can use to authenticate requests to the relay ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add the password to your application's encrypted credentials under
`action_mailbox.ingress_password`, where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  ingress_password: ...
```

Alternatively, provide the password in the `RAILS_INBOUND_EMAIL_PASSWORD` environment variable.

Configure Exim to pipe inbound emails to `bin/rails action_mailbox:ingress:exim`,
providing the `URL` of the relay ingress and the `INGRESS_PASSWORD` you
previously generated. If your application lived at `https://example.com`, the
full command would look like this:

```bash
$ bin/rails action_mailbox:ingress:exim URL=https://example.com/rails/action_mailbox/relay/inbound_emails INGRESS_PASSWORD=...
```

### Mailgun

Give Action Mailbox your
Mailgun Signing key (which you can find under Settings -> Security & Users -> API security in Mailgun),
so it can authenticate requests to the Mailgun ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add your Signing key to your application's
encrypted credentials under `action_mailbox.mailgun_signing_key`,
where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  mailgun_signing_key: ...
```

Alternatively, provide your Signing key in the `MAILGUN_INGRESS_SIGNING_KEY` environment
variable.

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from Mailgun:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :mailgun
```

[Configure Mailgun](https://documentation.mailgun.com/en/latest/user_manual.html#receiving-forwarding-and-storing-messages)
to forward inbound emails to `/rails/action_mailbox/mailgun/inbound_emails/mime`.
If your application lived at `https://example.com`, you would specify the
fully-qualified URL `https://example.com/rails/action_mailbox/mailgun/inbound_emails/mime`.

### Mandrill

Give Action Mailbox your Mandrill API key, so it can authenticate requests to
the Mandrill ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add your API key to your application's
encrypted credentials under `action_mailbox.mandrill_api_key`,
where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  mandrill_api_key: ...
```

Alternatively, provide your API key in the `MANDRILL_INGRESS_API_KEY`
environment variable.

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from Mandrill:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :mandrill
```

[Configure Mandrill](https://mandrill.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/205583197-Inbound-Email-Processing-Overview)
to route inbound emails to `/rails/action_mailbox/mandrill/inbound_emails`.
If your application lived at `https://example.com`, you would specify
the fully-qualified URL `https://example.com/rails/action_mailbox/mandrill/inbound_emails`.

### Postfix

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from an SMTP relay:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :relay
```

Generate a strong password that Action Mailbox can use to authenticate requests to the relay ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add the password to your application's encrypted credentials under
`action_mailbox.ingress_password`, where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  ingress_password: ...
```

Alternatively, provide the password in the `RAILS_INBOUND_EMAIL_PASSWORD` environment variable.

[Configure Postfix](https://serverfault.com/questions/258469/how-to-configure-postfix-to-pipe-all-incoming-email-to-a-script)
to pipe inbound emails to `bin/rails action_mailbox:ingress:postfix`, providing
the `URL` of the Postfix ingress and the `INGRESS_PASSWORD` you previously
generated. If your application lived at `https://example.com`, the full command
would look like this:

```bash
$ bin/rails action_mailbox:ingress:postfix URL=https://example.com/rails/action_mailbox/relay/inbound_emails INGRESS_PASSWORD=...
```

### Postmark

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from Postmark:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :postmark
```

Generate a strong password that Action Mailbox can use to authenticate
requests to the Postmark ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add the password to your application's
encrypted credentials under `action_mailbox.ingress_password`,
where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  ingress_password: ...
```

Alternatively, provide the password in the `RAILS_INBOUND_EMAIL_PASSWORD`
environment variable.

[Configure Postmark inbound webhook](https://postmarkapp.com/manual#configure-your-inbound-webhook-url)
to forward inbound emails to `/rails/action_mailbox/postmark/inbound_emails` with the username `actionmailbox`
and the password you previously generated. If your application lived at `https://example.com`, you would
configure Postmark with the following fully-qualified URL:

```
https://actionmailbox:PASSWORD@example.com/rails/action_mailbox/postmark/inbound_emails
```

NOTE: When configuring your Postmark inbound webhook, be sure to check the box labeled **"Include raw email content in JSON payload"**.
Action Mailbox needs the raw email content to work.

### Qmail

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from an SMTP relay:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :relay
```

Generate a strong password that Action Mailbox can use to authenticate requests to the relay ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add the password to your application's encrypted credentials under
`action_mailbox.ingress_password`, where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  ingress_password: ...
```

Alternatively, provide the password in the `RAILS_INBOUND_EMAIL_PASSWORD` environment variable.

Configure Qmail to pipe inbound emails to `bin/rails action_mailbox:ingress:qmail`,
providing the `URL` of the relay ingress and the `INGRESS_PASSWORD` you
previously generated. If your application lived at `https://example.com`, the
full command would look like this:

```bash
$ bin/rails action_mailbox:ingress:qmail URL=https://example.com/rails/action_mailbox/relay/inbound_emails INGRESS_PASSWORD=...
```

### SendGrid

Tell Action Mailbox to accept emails from SendGrid:

```ruby
# config/environments/production.rb
config.action_mailbox.ingress = :sendgrid
```

Generate a strong password that Action Mailbox can use to authenticate
requests to the SendGrid ingress.

Use `bin/rails credentials:edit` to add the password to your application's
encrypted credentials under `action_mailbox.ingress_password`,
where Action Mailbox will automatically find it:

```yaml
action_mailbox:
  ingress_password: ...
```

Alternatively, provide the password in the `RAILS_INBOUND_EMAIL_PASSWORD`
environment variable.

[Configure SendGrid Inbound Parse](https://sendgrid.com/docs/for-developers/parsing-email/setting-up-the-inbound-parse-webhook/)
to forward inbound emails to
`/rails/action_mailbox/sendgrid/inbound_emails` with the username `actionmailbox`
and the password you previously generated. If your application lived at `https://example.com`,
you would configure SendGrid with the following URL:

```
https://actionmailbox:PASSWORD@example.com/rails/action_mailbox/sendgrid/inbound_emails
```

NOTE: When configuring your SendGrid Inbound Parse webhook, be sure to check the box labeled **“Post the raw, full MIME message.”** Action Mailbox needs the raw MIME message to work.

## Process Incoming Email

Processing incoming emails usually entails using the email content to create models, update views, queue background work, etc. in your Rails application.

Before you can start processing incoming emails, you'll need to setup Action Mailbox routing and create mailboxes.

**Configure mailbox routing**

Routes for Action Mailbox are added to the `application_mailbox.rb` file. The regular expression matches the incoming email's `to` field.

```ruby
# app/mailboxes/application_mailbox.rb
class ApplicationMailbox < ActionMailbox::Base
  routing(/^save@/i     => :forwards)
  routing(/@replies\./i => :replies)
end
```

For example, the above will match any email sent to `save@` to a 'forwards' mailbox. Which we need to create.

**Create a mailbox**

```bash
# Generate new mailbox
$ bin/rails generate mailbox forwards
```

This creates a `ForwardsMailbox` class with a `process` method.

**Process email**

When processing an `InboundEmail`, you can get the parsed version of the email as a [`Mail`][] object with `InboundEmail#mail`. You can also access the raw source directly using the `#source` method. Some relevant fields:

- mail.to
- mail.date
- mail.subject
- mail.decoded

Once an email has been routed to the matching Mailbox and processed, Action Mailbox updates the email status stored in `action_mailbox_inbound_emails` table with one of the following values:

- Pending: Just received by one of the ingress controllers and scheduled for routing.
- Processing: During active processing, while a specific mailbox is running its process method.
- Delivered: Successfully processed by the specific mailbox.
- Failed: An exception was raised during the specific mailbox’s execution of the #process method.
- Bounced: Rejected processing by the specific mailbox and bounced to sender.

If the email is marked either `delivered`, `failed`, or `bounced` it's considered 'processed' and marked for incineration.

[`Mail`]: https://github.com/mikel/mail

## Example

```ruby
# app/mailboxes/forwards_mailbox.rb
class ForwardsMailbox < ApplicationMailbox
  # Callbacks specify prerequisites to processing
  before_processing :require_projects

  def process
    # Record the forward on the one project, or…
    if forwarder.projects.one?
      record_forward
    else
      # …involve a second Action Mailer to ask which project to forward into.
      request_forwarding_project
    end
  end

  private
    def require_projects
      if forwarder.projects.none?
        # Use Action Mailers to bounce incoming emails back to sender – this halts processing
        bounce_with Forwards::BounceMailer.no_projects(inbound_email, forwarder: forwarder)
      end
    end

    def record_forward
      forwarder.forwards.create subject: mail.subject, content: mail.content
    end

    def request_forwarding_project
      Forwards::RoutingMailer.choose_project(inbound_email, forwarder: forwarder).deliver_now
    end

    def forwarder
      @forwarder ||= User.find_by(email_address: mail.from)
    end
end
```

## Incineration of InboundEmails

By default, an [`InboundEmail`][] that has been processed will be incinerated after 30 days. The InboundEmail is considered as processed when its status changes to `delivered`, `failed` or `bounced`.

The actual incineration is done via the `IncinerationJob` that's scheduled to run after [`config.action_mailbox.incinerate_after`][] time. This value is set to `30.days` by default, but you can change it in your production.rb configuration. (Note that this far-future incineration scheduling relies on your job queue being able to hold jobs for that long.)

Default data incineration ensures that you're not holding on to people's data unnecessarily after they may have canceled their accounts or deleted their content.

The intention with Action Mailbox processing is that as you process an email, you should extract all the data you need from the email and persist into domain models in your application. The `InboundEmail` simply stays in the system for the extra time to allow for debugging and forensic and then will be deleted.

[`InboundEmail`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/InboundEmail.html
[`config.action_mailbox.incinerate_after`]: configuring.html#config-action-mailbox-incinerate-after

## Working with Action Mailbox in Development

It's helpful to be able to test incoming emails in development without actually
sending and receiving real emails. To accomplish this, there's a conductor
controller mounted at `/rails/conductor/action_mailbox/inbound_emails`,
which gives you an index of all the InboundEmails in the system, their
state of processing, and a form to create a new InboundEmail as well.

## Testing Mailboxes

Example:

```ruby
class ForwardsMailboxTest < ActionMailbox::TestCase
  test "directly recording a client forward for a forwarder and forwardee corresponding to one project" do
    assert_difference -> { people(:david).buckets.first.recordings.count } do
      receive_inbound_email_from_mail \
        to: 'save@example.com',
        from: people(:david).email_address,
        subject: "Fwd: Status update?",
        body: <<~BODY
          --- Begin forwarded message ---
          From: Frank Holland <frank@microsoft.com>

          What's the status?
        BODY
    end

    recording = people(:david).buckets.first.recordings.last
    assert_equal people(:david), recording.creator
    assert_equal "Status update?", recording.forward.subject
    assert_match "What's the status?", recording.forward.content.to_s
  end
end
```

Please refer to the [ActionMailbox::TestHelper API](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailbox/TestHelper.html) for further test helper methods.
